oh my god it's hot lonely kept us at 42
I've been seeing some complaints about
the energy and the awkwardness of these
intros but I'm doing it anyway you know
why cuz it's a hot spicy show to talk
about tonight we got we got some some
news that's broken a little bit about
the English broadcast taking place in
Los Angeles I live in Los Angeles but
I'm going to Korea sounds like the
casters aren't there's some other stuff
you know we got TSM they made it through
who knows what's gonna happen with echo
fox a whole lot of whole lot of news to
talk about as we get closer and closer
to these summer finals hot line League
episode 42 starts right now
hot line League is brought to you by
open by HP and now it's much quieter and
everyone talks about how annoying that
was I don't think we do that normally
how are you mark pretty good Wow hello
we go from that to this
okay anything else going on how are you
doing in wow so you're doing mythix I'm
321 so I can I mean you can just do
mythix on like without using the fucking
finder and you can just walk in with
people and fuckin doin yeah
so I'm time to just start doing that
getting straight as I feel pretty I am
are you you're still not enter in the NA
LCS guild
no I mean I so I told you about how I
got my like my brains dumb and so James
told me he's on emerald dream but he's
Alliance and everyone else is like oh
yeah we play horde so then I made Ford
on emerald dream but everyone's on tech
Kandra so now I'm on the wrong faction
on the wrong server you should just
transfer
yeah but then like I like I messed up
and then my girlfriend's on the same
server because like we just made them
together and now it's like I don't have
to make curse with you you know so I'm
stuffing it out for cuz the only thing
you can't do is mythic raid so you can
even do normal raids trust or it almost
like until I'm there like all fuckin
transfer then yeah tell me how you would
do you look at
you look a little tired is that because
you were watching dota 2 all weekend and
it's time to take a nap because all that
was just it's caused narcolepsy for you
I did just get back from the
International interesting they do
something a little bit different than
League of Legends okay week are you
gonna at a point in time where you're
gonna this this I listen I'm I'm gonna
give it to right at this episode but I'm
just wondering I'm just gonna say the
International is is interesting to me in
that their approach to broadcast is
slightly different because for groups
throughout the entire main event they
have their broadcast talent on-site but
you know that's just I guess the way
that they choose to do it yeah how was
TI Calvi how did you enjoy it
how many pieces did they get for that
broadcasting talent I don't know I mean
I guess all of them cuz they they make
it there but they do they do Chinese
language broadcasts Russian language
broadcasts English language broadcasts
probably another one but I think I'm
missing it all on site yep that's pretty
good but did you enjoy TI ya TI was dope
eg got top 3 that's pretty much like
what determines my level of enjoyment at
TI I think it was it was in Vancouver
this year yep and I used to say I think
it was in Vancouver this year you didn't
even know where you were uh well
Vancouver reminds me of Seattle in some
ways ok but normally it's in Seattle it
was I don't think it was as good as the
Seattle events but um I still enjoyed it
was it at a different time cuz I
remember last year like I finished I
think it was always later this year or I
mean like a date day slash time because
like I remember finishing LCS last time
like going home and watching the finals
no it still it was Saturday last year
too well LCS was earlier last year mark
3 yeah so in a world where it started at
12 and you only had four matches like
yeah right I know this year also went a
good amount later cuz they were it was a
five-game series where his last year was
the 3m series of it Walden shows up in
the hotline League chat and start
the TSM chants and my twitch chat'
system it's offensive to me um well
either way glad to have you back Kelby
it's been a little bit the show you guys
don't know it's Collin show you guys all
know so we will skip that but let's talk
about some of the hot topics I actually
think you know normally people are just
spamming TSM now normally mark and I we
talk a little bit about our takes on
some of the news that hit I actually
think it's better if we just get
straight into callers obviously but I
think mark maybe we should address sort
of the English broadcast stuff one you
work on the broadcast so I know I assume
that you knew this was a thing and
you're it's kind of a weird situation
for you talk about it because you
actually work with those guys right yeah
and you were holding out on us
which is interesting yeah what the fuck
paid enough to leak shit for our views
what the hell compared to what I get
paid all right let's go okay okay I see
I thought you were saying you know and
there you go
so we I was hoping that mark would sort
of explain Lee has a bit of a conflict
of interest here he did just now in his
own special way I actually knew about
this as well too because I was given the
heads up for a couple different ways but
the way in which I was the only one
holding out on you I I had talked I had
talked about this I don't know maybe god
I want to get to the Vettius things a
second but Kelby you should have noticed
because I mention it in there scrape you
I knew about it and the reason I
couldn't say anything about it was
because it was given to me is like
additional context on you know if I
wanted to go cover worlds or whatever it
was kind of like hey Travis before you
book anything you should know about this
but I was not it was given to me off the
record I wasn't in a position to really
say about it so I was I knew it was
gonna come out at some point in time but
speak ago the pettiest thing off the
record yes but it ended up in our skype
group oh I found out about it from some
other place as well I think it didn't
end up in the skype group cuz I didn't
know about it well maybe that's the case
let's go with that because I
so on that topic of like off-the-record
and then like that what I often hear
about a lot of stuff through like like
some channels that I shouldn't be using
to like get information but then I
always like confirm through other things
I'm going to talk about it
yeah but either way I I never would have
expected it to be Vettius a stream that
made the announcement and the way at
which she made that mark have you seen
the clips yeah he looks so mad about it
well he looks mad about it but it's
amazing because he looks mad at people
being surprised like that's my favorite
part you watch clip two he's what you
want
i watch clip two and people are like why
wouldn't you do it why would that be the
case and she's basically like cuz it's
so much cheaper you idiot like why would
you ever think we would do it to me it
felt more like he was just like mad that
he wasn't going to career something I
didn't think he was mad at his chat for
being like what the fuck whoa it was it
read to me like he was more surprised
and like dumbfounded that is like he had
he didn't feel like he should have to
explain it yes
that's how I read it cuz he was like can
you bullet you do you understand how
much it costs to send a whole production
broadcast team to another country yeah
the clips are on the subreddit guys we
don't need to link him or one of the
bots can link it or something I know but
it's just it's it's riveting stuff I got
to say cuz I I absolutely love that
that's how this announcement came out
you mind if riot took that approach more
often just because it's such a sensitive
subject like it is it is it is if there
are so many layers of us to because I
think a lot of people might know that
like casters streaming and if they can
monetize their stream has been like a
long discussion with riot to it so the
fact that you've got a caster on his
stream saying something that like
paragraphs and paragraphs of text come
out from like all sorts of different
parts of eSports and like people are now
like tweeting like riot is force like
tweet out pictures and screenshots of
the comments
what they're making cuz they're so far
downloaded it's just it's just it's so
funny I just I don't I feel I'm sure yes
I'm sorry I I'm poking fun at him
because I feel a little it's a little
shocking that I'm sure he's having it's
like unfortunate and I'm sure maybe he
just didn't realize that it was such a
sensitive subject but and part the
reason I find it funny is I don't I when
I found out about this I was like okay
well how are they going to message this
because this is gonna look like shit I
mean it was definitely something where
there was like I mean riot wasn't like
blind to the fact that it should be it
will be a controversial thing so like
they we were all like somewhat aware
talking internally about messaging and
stuff yeah when was the plan to message
at while I you probably can't answer
that or maybe you can when when were
they gonna talk about it I am so like
I'm of the casting talent I might be one
of the most on the outside on things
like that and sure so I don't know but
like I would speculate that on the day
that they you know how they always like
put out that big infographic of like
this is a roster of talent and I think
at some point when I had multiple people
not high-risk I had multiple people not
in high up positions or whatever and
when I discussed this that we're
implying like well we're just gonna do
it and see when people figure it out um
so like I kid you doc I had multiple
people who just said well it's Cassie
against a dark screen like it's always
is fucking way because like one of the
things on social media people always
tweet about like getting ready for yeah
and so yes I here's frosting in LA and
that's why I say like I wasn't talking
to PR people or I wasn't talking to
production people like nobody take that
as like that was their plan but I did
have multiple people imply to me that
like well it'll be interesting to see
how long people figure it out I assumed
that they would just say we're live from
the Los Angeles studio at the start of
the broadcast and that's how people
would figure it out I don't think that
they try to hide it but again like I
think it's just funny that a lot of
people thought so
and by the way sorry somebody says holy
no one knows the context guys this is a
problem that we make a bunch of
allusions to things so it Vettius it was
announced
- the Vettius stream today because
people are too dumb to you well but for
people that are watching the YouTube and
stuff
the English broadcast the casters who
normally after plans go to China for
last year's worlds or travel around the
u.s. or or wherever they are go to
wherever they're going to broadcast
they'll just be broadcasting exclusively
from the LCS Studios so that's it's it's
a controversial topic because I think a
lot of people are like well you know
your talent isn't even there just I
think across the whole year of
conversations around them downsizing the
joke to make here would be oh how are
they going to do worlds out of the LCS
studio na LCS studio when they've
already announced that it's going to be
in Korea well now we have our answer so
anyway so look I have a lot of opinions
about it I know Kelby does and Mark is
another type position but I'd rather
just hear you guys this takes because I
I I'd want to know that LAN will kind of
I think he'll be and I can kind of
bounce off of that but on top of that we
have some other stuff happened
TSM made it through and I crazy best of
five series fly Quest is dunzo much to
Cal B's disappointment I'm sure okay and
and yeah I mean just so a whole bunch of
what am I forgetting anything else mark
it means clutches in the gauntlet now
officially yeah that's true here's to
watch those really emo boys play another
game yep so that's I think the top stuff
but if you guys have other stuff you
want to talk about from this past week
that's fine I just talked about the
drama because it's not complete no one
knows what it is yes sir
so you know how Bob Jim played on this
weekend instead of Mickey yes not this
weekend but week nine yes I have heard a
little bit about this but I I was a
server so good go for it
I heard just somebody mentioned it and I
didn't understand the context so now
I'm happy to the context I don't think
you need much context he just went back
to Korea on his own it after scrum set
and he's always been like a super duper
rager and a bunch of people told me he's
one of the worst humans they've ever
played with okay so let me get this
straight so after a scrim set before
week nine Mickey what gets angry so yeah
there's a you know how the player rooms
are situated at the LCS like yeah you
can kind of see like some of them and
like here some of them based off like
where they are in the actual studio in
office
yeah sure yeah he very frequently after
losses we get very very upset to the
point that like anyone near that room
could see or hear it mm-hmm and so like
everyone knows he's just like the super
duper rager in soloqueue people talk
about how he's just like the most toxic
person ever like I'm sure you guys have
seen the the linked screenshots and
stuff like that all the time no I I knew
that solo was supposed to be a rager I
hadn't heard that Mickey wasn't making
it like me if you don't follow like hi
so like you Akash you might not see it
because I don't know if the pro players
talk about it as much as I like you you
know who force within is he's like a
kindred one-trick yeah he's a kindred
one-trick high-yellow and like Mickey's
like telling him like oh you fucking
suck like stop playing in my games you
piece of shit like just constantly like
flaming him and then yeah English guy
was Maurice English pretty good I don't
think it's that great I interviewed him
there's a mostly English interview on my
channel might be the last one I guess I
ever get yeah probably because he walked
out on an a okay so so what is the story
that he left after the games or this is
the part that I don't have a hundred
percent clarity on physics exactly like
the order of operations but basically
midweek scrim set afterwards went back
to Korea whether or not he communicated
before he did that but it from how it
was told to me it was his like Mickey
decided to do that it wasn't like I want
to know what team two
- mickey out of the states up cuz that's
gotta be like a pretty high accolade
that's gonna go my resume for the new
yeah yeah yeah I played so well in this
ground games that a player left the
country yeah so that's one of those
drama things that like the scene we
never hear about unless one of us decide
to talk about it and I feel like we have
become a little too sanitized as a scene
I can't wait to see the farewell Mickey
video you know the tribute that all the
aurochs love to do now thanking the
player fans it's sorry thank you thank
you sorry thank you sons thank you thank
you thank you Mickey everything gave us
thank you for making fans think we had a
chance week for what mr. Mickey hmm
anyways that was the little drama which
one get it out of the way before actual
show because I don't want to have to
pull a collar to be like what's the
drama and then talk about it yeah all
right well that note maybe it's time to
start talking about we got a lot of
people in here tonight
hey the people people all day long have
been messaging us ask me tell me and
everybody asking for the discord they
want to talk about stuff everything all
right yeah Twitter was lit today give
give the spiel all right so here's the
spiel if you haven't been here before
but since you have I am posting a
discord link in twitch chat right now
you're gonna want to click that and join
up with the discord when you get here
you're gonna have to join Platt calls or
plug calls to use voice channels you can
meet yourself once you're there and then
in the plug topics Tex channel go ahead
and post your tape so whatever it is you
want to talk about this week probably
gonna be a lot of stuff about the Riot
Games and not going to Korea thing go
ahead put it in there don't just say I
want to talk about the Riot Games Korea
thing say I think it's awful I actually
don't care whatever your actual opinion
is I want to see that so I know what I'm
pulling and then you'll get dragged into
the waiting room if I like your topic
once you're there you'll hang out until
it's your turn I'll come
and make sure your microphones good to
go and then I will be able to get you on
the air I I do think it'd be fun to talk
about dark ragequitting it's actually
not oh well did you hear about that
Kelvin
he left the game early he left the game
early
like they what was it did he initiate
the fight though so like actually my boy
is back I got a bunch of people tweeting
at me like you guys didn't talk about
that on the ad you guys are covering not
forum and I'm like what I didn't even
notice he did that like I read that
tweet and then I saw it on the subreddit
and stuff and I was like whatever like I
did what let's just hang him let's just
see if a caller calls in let's let's
have the tag take the night oh no it's
coming up now yeah I got to hear this
story though the full story by the way
yeah so mark is already pulling collars
but if you if you don't know how this
works
mark spam the discord I put the
instructions in right now the discord oh
GG / Travis you can join you can either
join the pleb calls and put your
questions in there please don't spam I'm
already seeing some spam no spam allowed
that's one way that mark will not pick
you but I really enjoy reading the same
topic 10 times actually yeah it makes
his life so much easier whenever there's
just one paragraph of text it's people
treating it like a copypasta from twitch
chat if you are a sub though you can get
access to the sub topics chat it moves a
little slower in there so maybe gives
you a little bit of a better chance of
being pulled and of course if you do get
pulled I'll do my best to thank you on
the chat there are a shit ton of subs
that have come in tonight so I need to
make sure that I think all of them as
Mark is pulling people to make sure
people if you're posting in the text
channel and you want to come on the show
I need you to be as your club culture
there so I was gonna pull but he's not
in yep oh so this is chance not reading
that again okay thank you - I am Johnson
commander Charmander Beach
10k cold nights OMG you ate my cookies 5
OMG you ate my because he's 5 gift
except a sneaky Kuiper Mari Sam fix 99
qui blue most a Chien educated Collins
Leo dole TSM mithi who by the way
supposedly the actual TSM if he didn't
get gifted and just through a submit us
which is crazy one for one for one for
555 st. Louis Slayer 24 Michael's 21
never get mad bulgy JP captain crouton
mister spook ria procs I shred Lea a
tear Rachel who came in for five months
in Rohtak wahoo Z bake 0 5 Lalo Sam Oh
tic-tac ninja tic-tac don't tone inja
real foxy gives us up to leave Emily in
bail 9 1 6 3 mister boom and RAL Dios
we'll catch up with some more of those
in a little bit so many tonight you guys
are so generous so generous
alright mark how are we looking
I got two people sorry we want you yeah
you want to pull one of them yeah sure
okay cool Oh can't flutes champloo
coming in with a thousand bits 'since
mark is mad about like a drama ask he'll
be about t2 and Gandhi toilet paper
that's a classic Halo or a forensic
really oh yeah oh yeah that's old school
that's like 2005-2006 yeah
we are 120 subs away from my peak I
think Oh meddling kids is here meddling
kids where you calling from New York New
York thank you for being a twitch sub is
that picture of you on discord you yes
actually it's very American what do you
want to talk about on the show tonight
organized play with no real direction
the downsizing and broadcast internet
and from my outside perspective right
he's refocused like for next season with
organized play some of the things that I
really have problems with it's like if
you read the reddit post from riot today
they talked about how it was originally
or LCS and organized
was to bring attention to the game and
how that's not really working anymore
but now it's in this weird limbo state
where they're talking about it's not
making money so is it not recruiting new
players or like trying to retrack tree
turning players and I noticed that odd I
was watching TI last week heard this
weekend and they had a new player stream
and I have a nice saw right did that two
years ago but that was missing are they
going for more of an overwatch lead
model and the case is like Jersey Mike's
is like a cool sponsor and so it's omen
by HP but it's like you're competing
with like the Toyotas and the sour patch
kids and are you trying to be like more
internalized in the league and promote
that in that sense
sure so so sorry really quickly so when
you say organized play can you explain a
little bit by cuz that's what I was kind
of hung up on it sounds like it sounds
like you're saying sort of riot isn't
filling you don't like it I don't know I
just love for you to hone in a little
bit more on what you mean by that
Oh play is because like specific
structure but then there's also like the
Academy structure and then of course
worlds itself is also like different is
not part of the LCS but it's still part
of organized play in general sure what
are you even trying to accomplish with
those things at this point and I I just
really think that they need to focus on
something where like get a clear
direction out there or just maybe even
scrap the entire model and think like
hey maybe worlds itself is a bad idea
and maybe you should just have an LCS
for each region and call it a day oh so
you are I'm sorry are you saying that
the NA LCS has become such a big focus
for North American players like North
American fans and that kind of thing
that worlds and Academy and all these
things kind of fall apart just like na
LCS is like too much of a it's almost
like a behemoth is that what you're
trying to say no I'm clear it's like you
have you have this like you have this
structure like this idea of na LCS and
it doesn't really accomplish anything
and right I and I don't understand what
they're trying to accomplish at this
point like am i watching is this product
out there to drive new players to the
oh I see we're saying this product out
here to try to get massive sponsors like
your Toyota's and sour patch kids like
what is the goal originally yeah
originally was to drive player base in
engagement with the title for these
players so I didn't see that post that
you're referencing meddling kids did
they say that it was that eSports did
not appear to be good for player
acquisition or player retention or they
did not specify it did it did not
specify it was talking more about how it
moved from an attention sorry this is
part of the the right is cutting back
budget on you sports right and if you go
down you'll see one of the things talks
about how it's no longer about attention
and they need to remove like move from a
start-up model yeah like a revenue
generating model yeah it's how a mature
business there we go
they are no longer in start-up yeah but
that's that that's a different argument
then eSports doesn't bring people
whereas sorry who was the author of this
post on that thread it's cuz we're cuz I
saw his post earlier but I didn't
remember that aspect of it it's I guess
we're down oh here we go
hey I think that was a misrepresentation
of the point he's making he's saying
that like for a period of time they
didn't care if it ran at a deficit
because they just wanted to get the word
out that like hey we have this fucking
league and we're gonna make it hype as
balls so people actually want to watch
it and now I will as this my
understanding of the poster saying now
that is at this point it's no longer
about spending money to get people's
attention it's about making this a
profitable thing and I think that's
different than the idea of like player
acquisition necessarily yeah okay I I'm
more tending to agree with meddling kids
here like riot has the data especially
to see what kind of purpose the league
serves especially when they're starting
out like they didn't spend money on
advertising they put all of their money
into making LCS as big as possible and
they I guarantee haven't
data around playerbase growth and lake
uniques and engagement and also spending
habits during these events especially
around world speaks yeah for sure I'm
not saying yeah I don't disagree with
the point I actually don't think eSports
is good for player acquisition I think
it's if anything only good for player or
I'm not only good but it's it's much
better for primarily good yeah
yeah I don't disagree then yeah I just
not saying that that's what I got out of
the shows well I think that I think that
starting out LCS and World Championships
was as as League of Legends was growing
obviously like its focus is different
now and is transitioning which is what
they're talking about in that post
because everybody in their mother has
heard about League of Legends and
probably tried the game if they're ever
going to try it at this point whereas
like you know back in 2012-2013 that
wasn't the case so this is me having
some insight that maybe I shouldn't have
but I actually think that that claim is
largely not true the name League of
Legends a lot of people do in fact know
but one of the biggest problems that
I've heard from some internal data is
that when people hear the name legal
legends they actually don't know what it
is and so this is kind of getting off
the topic of easy ways that you should
have heard from my friend yeah but I'm
just saying that like I think while
people know have heard of League of
Legends a lot people don't actually know
what the game is and it's not like
everyone and their mother has tried
League of Legends and it's kind of to my
original point where it's like I feel
like the riot broadcast doesn't really
facilitate for that well yeah
well I'm watching Ti right I can choose
something that says nuclear stream right
even though I've never seen the game
before I understand now what a blink
dagger does even though I had no idea
because little thing pops up and shows
what it does but if I'm showing the game
off to a friend yeah I'm trying to
explain like what's dounia's is and
until you see it it's like Jesus I like
I can't explain it you like turn golden
and nothing hits you like that's really
hard
oh good yeah I I think by the way I just
echo marks thing here not to be
dismissive of your initial point
meddling kids but I in rereading this
post by Figaro um I don't see anything
here where they were talking about the
goals of eSports only that in the past
they have viewed right eSports as a
startup that generally speaking the
implication there is that if they're in
start-up mode they're less concerned
about generating revenue and they are
more concerned about just growth and
that now that they have grown their
eSport and that they found a lot of
success across a bunch of different
areas that they are now going to they're
now focusing on revenue and trying to
break even
but your point is still a very good one
which is what is the point of LCS and in
the past I think a lot of people thought
that LCS was about you know hey I
watched doublelift play Vayne this
weekend and that skin is super cool I
want to learn in vain I'm gonna buy
Vayne and I'm gonna buy that skin and so
it's really we this is why it's gets
really murky and really strange anytime
we start anytime riots start saying but
the expenses here and the revenue
because how do you determine how much
money you are making off of eSports via
people that are spending stuff on your
game because in the past it certainly
seemed like that was why you were
investing it it didn't feel like Riot
held season 1 worlds at Dreamhack in
2011 because they hoped that in 2018
they could finally start going out to
sponsors and they could get Jersey
Mike's to give them some money and
whoever else to give them some money
yeah I I think like a lot of what
meddling kids point-source we're pretty
accurate or at least interesting I think
the idea of like the league because it's
a Travis's point I don't know and there
is some metrics you can obviously track
like hey World Finals happens did we see
a increase play rate of those champions
across the world yeah probably
and then you can somehow start deriving
value from that I would argue though
that like even during the broadcast like
this weekend I think the point came up
about rise as a champion and how it's a
very good Pro pick but not a good
soloqueue pick because it requires so
much coordination and it like really
sucks
my name's dunker yeah yeah but as a as
as a retook yeah you're right because
that but that argument holds true in
literally every sport there's always
rats that are dumb for regular people to
try but they do it anyways because it
was flashy and cool like IIIi just think
that the point about like tracking the
expenditures versus the revenue gained
by eSports was not a focus for the
initial years at all and now it is and
that's why some of these decisions are
being made regardless of whether or not
people are supposed to stomach that yeah
here so here's my problem with that
meddling kids and hopefully I'm not
hijacking or your point too much but
okay so riot says right says that in the
past we've not cared about revenue and
now we are going to care about like
we're caring about the total cost of
this stuff so we need to make more money
and we need to make it affordable that's
a great noble goal because I think in
eSports you know behind the scenes a lot
of us talk about is there a bubble are
people able to make money off of eSports
and especially when you're talking about
a world where you know you right just
got a hundred million dollars from ten
different companies or owners or
whatever they should be thinking about
this stuff the problem is the problem is
that this is seem like they could have
done way more to help monetize their
league before we got to this point like
if they had done a better job in
sponsorship sales if they've had as good
of a team as seemingly Activision
Blizzard had with overwatch League if
they were able to bring in these deals
and if they were able to think more
comprehensively about digital stuff you
know like the dota just happened the
compendium kalbi how okay what was the
total prize pool for the compendium
earth forty I over 25 million dollars
okay and do we know how much of that was
raised from the compendium yeah yeah Val
takes a 25% or sorry valve takes a 75%
cut so they raised over a hundred
million so valve doesn't seed that it's
purely funded by the compendium the
prize pool starts at $1 or does it
it starts at one point seven okay so 1.7
million so they didn't make 75 million
because the 1.7 is not right so they
made like 70 or something like that so
there's a great example right for one
event granted it's the only event that
they really do valve was able to make 70
million dollars off of a much smaller
player base yeah so like there are
numerous levers numerous numerous
numerous monetization levers that riot
could have been pulling for years and
they have just not because they didn't
care and they actually said in the past
that they like well I don't to
paraphrase the the general sentiment
that I have gotten from them over the
years is that this was not a priority
well even say it was not a priority the
problem is is that now it is a priority
and they are because they haven't
focused on it for years you're you're
kind of fucked right now because you're
you've prioritized this you're you're
trying to break even
and you can't because you haven't done
any of the groundwork and this is the
first time you're really actually
thinking about this stuff the BAM tech
deal is supposed to help with all this
stuff a lot of people said like Travis
is a long boring video talking about the
BAM tech deals not even that big of a
deal well guess what guys actually the
other zantac caller what's that by the
way yeah I think there's a good chance
that that stuff would have happened to
had had you know we wouldn't be in the
situation of the BAM text offend father
so there's my basement yeah yeah I don't
know
so meddling kids your your general take
it I know it tends to go back but you
say they should refocus what do you what
would what would that look like for you
[Music]
and your might think I I think if you're
truly trying to like market and reach
out to newer players or players like
myself who left the game and then
returned recently to make the streams
more focused or at least give the option
to have streams like that the second
thing is kind of
not only reaching out to more sponsors
but reaching out to like the I'm sorry I
this parts a little hard Arctic yeah no
it's fine
I offer my suggestion yes you do your
for you no no no it's for sure so I
think that probably there's a there's a
couple different avenues that could go
here which you could do in combination
with each other
if riot wants to just purely create the
best product the best like viewership
eSports experience which is something
that is not financially motivated which
they've already essentially explicitly
said in this post it's no longer the
case anymore but as one of the avenues
to explore then you know like it's just
not not something that you need to
change but obviously probably you're not
cutting back on this stuff and you
understand that it's just an expense
that your company has in order to
produce this because you want to be the
biggest thing whatever if your goal is
to drive further engagement with the
playerbase because you think you know
what if we create this awesome LCS
experience and we have some sort of tie
back and it drives people's further
engagement with the game it keeps them
around playing longer it makes them more
investors player and you know we know
that as we have a player the place for
this long time they're more likely to
spend money all this stuff then they
could do something I think as Travis
said along the lines of a compendium or
riot stick on it doesn't have to be a
Popoff some sort of integration that
ties my viewership experience of the LCS
into the game where I'm rewarded or some
way or there's just some sort of
engagement metric that comes back to
League of Legends and then I have that
path for monetization for because look
we can go back to the company and today
we're driving that we're driving
engagement in the player base and stuff
if you are going like hey we need this
to be somewhere near breaking even or
profitable the easiest route without
diverting internal production resources
because the the big hurdle obviously
with doing the compendium thing is like
you take people away from making skins
to do this riot eSports initiative and
it's a different it's a different group
right it's not a part of like Riot Games
proper then you need to take a different
approach
with how you're doing traditional
sponsorships because we know that there
hasn't been any success as especially
sustained in that regard to this point
there's a so you're saying sorry break
breaking down or we're losing you a
little bit where this I feel like it's
feeling more like a meeting with a brand
than you're saying basically riot has
not had success in the sponsorships
department or at least extended success
where like we've seen them a sponsors
pop up here and there but they don't
always stick around maybe a sir being
the most exception to that rule
I'm just saying depending on those three
different avenues that I said which
would be objectives for League eSports
as a group whether it's creating the
coolest product driving further
engagement with the player base or just
getting as close to profitability as
possible those are the three areas that
you could specifically focus on yeah hey
meddling kids thank you so much for your
call I think we're gonna keep talking
about the subject I'm sure we've got
some more callers but I do really want
to appreciate you or thank you for
kicking it off and for really honing in
that idea of like maybe what is the
point of the NA LCS and Ryan sports
approached in general no no it's good
yeah thank you so much all right mark
before we move on to the next caller
yeah Dean I wouldn't want to get through
more than one caller in an hour well we
do have unlike ride we have support of a
wonderful partner coming up yeah yeah I
listen here at at hotline League here at
Travis cafard industries we we value our
partners tremendously they help send us
we they power our LA broadcast studio
that all of our talent broadcast out of
and and allows us to have Cal be may
come in remotely from from San Francisco
our campus spawns the bonds
spreads across the entire west coast
yeah I'm talking about Owen by HP
everyone thank you so much Toma by HP
for their support of hot line League
they've been supporting for quite some
time started talking to them just before
worlds of last year about coming in and
helping us out they get hooked us up
with some gear at the time they know
later on became a more formal sponsor of
the show I've got it's unpowered right
now but this is all omen by HP gear
behind me helping to make this is like a
production set up where a producer can
come in they can shoot all the stuff is
being broadcast off of Owen by HP rbair
they are somewhat new to the gaming
space in terms of total years but
they've been doing some really cool
stuff during that time things like
sponsoring overwatch League sponsoring
CLG the announced a partnership with
cloud nine recently they do something
called omen squad which is their support
of grassroots streamers and then
obviously the support of the work that
we do here on hot line League so if you
if you appreciate them because again it
is it is really important like without
sponsors and partners I would be
destitute so if you can go follow them
on Twitter I put a link to them in the
twitch chat just now you can check them
out on youtube if you're watching the
odd of this Union this clip in the
description just give them a shout out
say thanks to them for their support and
thank you so much to hot line League
once more or sorry to omen by HP once
more for sponsoring hot line League does
Owen sell printers Bret zero seven to
seven does asks I don't think that they
have any gaming branded printers yet I'm
I'm I don't know if they're working on
it but that would be cool but HP sells
printers I believe so you can check that
out all right back to on the next caller
you ready mark do we losing your mediate
okay he just left
all right where were we on the shout
outs in bill 9 163 mister boom are all
do SPO but color gives us up to red
dragon egg Syria Coco Sanchez Michael
spas
seven subbed in demon spike 21 and then
masked channels sent $10 and directly
we've got Sam goes ham on the line right
now Sen goes ham where are you calling
from
I'm calling from Pittsburgh Pittsburgh
and will you be going a ham on the show
tonight of course okay okay looking
forward to it what do you got for us uh
so I wanted to talk about how TSM might
be lacking this year because there are
four tonight teams blowing up it seems
like the organization's kind of I don't
know
TSM has never been really focused on
like another game really hard and it
looks like they're putting a lot of
resources I guess into their for tonight
team rightfully so they're like I was
like looking at their YouTube views just
because I've been following it this year
has it's been blowing up like if you
look at any other Fortnight videos
they're usually like almost doubling or
most of the ones like involving like the
team or like all in the millions
and I don't know I think it's like this
is because it seems like there for
tonight team kind of like represents
kind of what made TSM what they are
today like being that they're all
friends and yeah like into it also seems
like what was I gonna say
sorry about that but I it seems like
Reggie I guess isn't as worried about um
I don't know it seems like he's just not
as worried about the league team in
general just because he kind of has the
fortnight team to fall back on that
could be due to franchising tube but
yeah that's just kind of take I got
looking from like the outside
perspective of it to a shut oh go ahead
mark no you go first it sounds like you
I was gonna say twitch chat is blowing
up because you mentioned fortnight and
now don't look at it don't look at it
Sam because they are gone but like
twitch at here's for tonight in they're
like wow this is about League of Legends
I know I don't this is the but I think
your point is a good quit it's a good
question which is to ask is TSM
suffering because for the first time in
quite some time the day is an
organization have a a strong concerted
effort around another title and the
eSports Basin is that distracting them
is is Reggie Reggie out there in the
post feat like between game shots still
coaching it up with Park and weld in and
never
if like yeah but we haven't seen Reggie
in those shots before now right mark
yeah he's been around a little bit I
mean he's I've seen him I'll see us I'm
not trying this he's definitely been
less involved and I'm pretty sure TSM
was making a concerted effort to not let
him go like cool coach mode but I think
not students would not let him but like
to allow him to step away like they
don't want to have to rely on him so I
think he's more involved again come
playoffs of course but I don't use like
completely separated it kind of seems
like parts the new Reggie cuz like I
just get the out perspective right so I
pretty much just see what happens on
legends and then whatever happens on LCS
but yeah like I'm used to seeing Reggie
like talking to the team like in between
games
he's even like seems like he's talking
about like strategy stuff to the team
and like I don't know it seems like
he'll like put his back up against the
law to help the team out and it just
seems like that same effort from him
hasn't been there this split or even
this whole year in general yeah I think
it's an interesting question by the way
mark you're your Mickey story is now
trending on reddit yes I commented
pretty quickly in there okay okay
I don't know Kelby Isa you're the only
one of us that used to run an
organization mostly into the ground but
what did you oh what did you think or
what do you think of this because TSM is
a small organization right like Team
Liquid for instance I I bet you teamlack
could probably is like five six seven
times the amount of staff that TSM has
for better or for worse but that that
might mean that whenever TSM actually
has like a really big success and really
blows up in one of these organizations
it's a fair question to ask like how
much does that split their resources
yeah for sure I personally like we we
talked before about how at least I
personally believe that Reggie has been
really really important to the league's
teams sustained success over over time
especially with how consistent they've
been because I think of
anybody else even like George as a
former like pro player he like stayed so
in touch with the team and was
essentially that that that coach has Sam
identified throughout the process
whenever things like get rough and stuff
I know that he's really really into
fortnight and spends a lot of time
focused on it so yeah it probably like
can have an effect and an elongated
period on maybe like downward trends for
the league team as far as performance
but I don't think otherwise from like a
resources perspective that the team that
the League of Legends team doesn't get
the support that they need you know it's
it's really just like if Reggie is there
with them or not and long term like it's
obviously not sustainable for your CEO
and Founder to have to always be
babysitting your team and I don't think
that Squad really needs it either like
they're super capable I think that the
the rosters lack of success this split
is probably just more due to things
outside of that it's just like you know
with Reggie around and if he's like
supremely focused on that as well
it gets you through your little dips
quicker because he is a former pro so
experienced has all that you know
knowledge and it really really helps in
running a team competitively when you
have somebody it was like the outside
perspective that can help you guys like
see through stuff and and like refocus
or identify what needs to be fixed
yeah I would say I think that if I think
it's less about if they would be
affected by anything it would be less
about performance and be more about like
how are we gonna strategically use our
League of Legends business in an
interesting way like a McKelvey is
probably right and that there's a little
bit but I don't think that I don't think
that a ret like a if fortnight didn't
exist I'm gonna sure TSM would be number
one in the league or number two yeah
yeah mark you're laughing about
something I saw an arrow in chat say how
come - yes and because meeting about
their Academy stuff like that a heaven
look I'll come to you somewhat sorry
you're cutting
yessum how come TSM hasn't been tweeting
about their Academy team I feel like I
haven't seen it in forever and I'm just
laughing at that because their cabbie
team sucks
it was just rolling it up well TSM
historically has not been great about
promoting all of their game divisions
csgo
subreddit used to complain about a lot
h1z1 subreddit has complained about it
yeah yeah but they don't have that issue
with for tonight well I mean they're
doing a really good job supporting for
tonight yeah yeah I pretty much agree
with everything Kelly said like maybe
Reggie not being there contributes a
little bit but on the scale of where TSM
is that compared to where we thought
they would be I would not think that
that takes up a very significant portion
of their problems yeah hey I want to
thank you so much Sam goes ham for
calling in yeah thanks for bringing me
in guys yeah appreciate and hopefully
the ham keeps going ha ha I'll try to
thank you for that left on that laughs
yeah thank you yeah all right by the way
mark one thing I forgot we we did miss
out on is all team the NA LCS all team
got announced with any ocean did you see
that Kelby do you see who won was it
Peter
yeah well Peters in the five people win
yeah double lift is technically win no
you know how wily you know who won there
is one man on the show who correctly
voted for all the people that were in
the all-star team lineup that's me the
all team yeah I'm I never won all team
named the number one all team nice were
you the only person who correctly you
know Greek and Arthur also did okay but
how many voters three other like thirty
or something that's the show Tom Yam so
your top your top of like yeah for sure
I think I have one I think my support
was different the others were the same
yeah yeah I got the script leaked yeah
well we leaked a lot of the script on
the other show yeah did you see any of
that coming further
you were probably traveling back from
yeah I know they do some really good
stuff come on the desk Travis and do
some analysis for us yep we get all
these pro players on to help with their
like brand and exposure but if anyone
really needs help it's Travis so maybe
we should get him on the countdown yeah
I love I would happily come on the
countdown or the dive or any of that
stuff
I would love to pitch I can't get paid
but as I say I don't think we'll pay you
but I would love to I I can't write
doesn't have money to pay you anyways
yeah a rumor mill segment would be would
be I yeah I want Travis isn't worth the
money even if I had the money of course
you know so yeah we're paying him in
exposure that's fine well I mean I just
like hanging out with you guys so if I
can do that it'd be fun or replacing -
or something you guys have killed off
all the different people like me knobbly
take over the desk there's a whole lot
of segments there that I I like but
again we're hosting a show right now
where I'm really angry at rights
decision and very vocal about that so
broadcast team you know how Travis was
publicly tweeting about how overwatch
League was kicking your ass well why
don't we have him on the show
alright maybe we should grab speaking up
on the show maybe we've got the next
person trained katay subbed i am the
head collector danny nooks synapses man
j elk yovan the king Jovan the King Melo
jela one hunter called Frederickson
Krieg Mogar five-o five-o these are
several hosts they don't count
rice 81 Cali me proto for six months
thank you for that an age rez three
we've got tic-tac-toe ninja who I
believe subbed early did I shut you out
earlier three months yes okay come okay
thank you for the three months this is
your first time on the show it is my
second time second time on the show I'm
sorry that I yeah if you had been six
months I would have remembered so let's
talk we're cool but where you calling
from by the way Florida Tampa Florida
okay yeah we do get a lot of Florida
people calling in what would you like to
talk about on the show too
well first I think it's important that I
you know I would think Oh HP is blessed
to have you because I purchased a
product of theirs because of you oh
thank you amazing pet sequencing
keyboard this keyboard industry's
leading optical mechanical switch
technology just built for gamers amazing
but I digress are you reading off the
back of something that sounds like a
marketing language for that yeah I
believe that is their new keyboard that
came out so yeah came out I think a
couple weeks ago so thank you thank you
for your purchase and if anybody and
twitchchat can please clip it they never
clip it and i have to go back and find
it listen i Israa twitch chat is both my
audio people and they also helped me
with my deliverables so don't you have
an agent who can go back and do that for
you for monthly reporting what a lazy
son of a bitch and not only this Travis
you switched out to do work for him
he also gets paid by them he's getting
paid to use them you might call me a
tic-tac-toe ninja the way I'm playing
this kind of scheme which way is the
money flow in here mark sorry you get
paid by me so maybe you stop talking
right now
tic-tac doto ninja what what what do you
want to talk about on the show tonight
so a very controversial topic and pretty
sure about my topic was I think TSN as
double if stated very boldly it's
definitely boosted and I've only made it
out I believe it's because echo Fox's
lack of precision I think they'll go
threes c9 we'll go three hours Gillette
because beer yeah think bjergsen can't
one be nine against the nut personal
okay so so
aggro Fox sucks which is why TSM got out
is what you're saying yeah yeah hundred
percent okay so why what makes you what
makes you say this maybe you can provide
so this one guy things just watching the
game like a lot of those dives that they
did I think it was maybe even the last
game to our duck was so far
in the jungle getting let boasts cuddles
etc I'm not too familiar in a jungle but
I remember obviously they're talking
about on the desk and it's like they
have such a good jungle lead and I think
they had the first blood two kills or
something and I'll plays and they were
throwing with the dives I can't can't
recall the fifth game but I just feel
like they had it in the pocket in the
early game and they just went downhill
with some stupid stuff so it's like you
take c9 in my opinion I don't know like
I feel like they are a little bit more
they won't make those same mistakes and
I think you sneaky and hazel would do
like they was shit on their bottom way
and like double lifted and their last
match of the season against Yale so I'm
going back over the Masters history to
make sure they like echo fox had most
the time around 15 minutes on average
like a 2k gold lead and then would kind
of throw and they would go more or less
the fifth game was the only one that
they didn't have the gold lead but it
was still like a pretty back-and-forth
game and I think that's why a lot of
people are kind of looking at that
series and going like TSM despite
advancing was not very convincing
because like they basically won that
series by punishing echo fox when they
messed up I think yeah I think I think a
lot of people had a similar sentiment
walking away from that series even like
amongst the analysts that I was I was in
conversation with they're like yeah TSM
won but like they really need to kick it
up a notch to have a chance for a c9
because you know it's a really good
early game team kind of like echo fox
and like you said they're probably
cleaner from then on so I don't think if
if TSM play at that level again I don't
think that they have a very high chance
at all to get out to finals we've got an
arrow in the twitch chat former echo Fox
coach who says hey you shut your mouth
buddy echo fox are the best team in the
world and not a single team is better
than them they chose to go to game 5 to
leak as many drafts as possible for
other teams to use versus TSM and then
they're gonna make the gauntlet run
undefeated so you know what if that's
the case I applaud them
he's a meteo fan yeah and it became a
copypasta that the entire twitch chat is
now spamming so
so a narrow clue me in on this so you go
to five games to see as much as you can
for other people gotcha why'd you lose
Game five because you you could have
just beat him in Game five well that
anymore drafts but there's it
there's no more drafts to see yeah once
you see the draft you can still win the
game unless you're trash you're asking a
lot of questions that I don't think we
need to go just kidding you're not trash
into some professionally de Legends game
so but they TSM is improving pretty
dramatically right mark from like being
the seventh place team yeah yeah so
there's a good chance that like six or
seven if they're really turning it on
for playoffs we see them at a level to
beat clawed nine this week right
maybe I mean it's tall ass because I
think the matchup isn't great either
like even like assuming both teams are
playing well right which isn't always
the case maybe he has someplace pants or
well and see not plays bad this doesn't
matter but I think it's a really weird
match if we're spending mithi for the
most part play relatively defensive and
they want to try and get their
advantages in the top or the mid lane
for the most part that's where Greg
spends most of his resources time and
stuff like that but what's weird is
that's also where c9 is the strongest as
well like licorice is top to top laner
easily Jensen and blabber been hulking
out together and then your bot Lane
mostly looks to go even and if they can
win great but they're they're not like
picking matchups to do that or really
playing to do that either so it just
doesn't feel like you know even if CSM
was playing well a good matchup yeah but
what's that said like do you it just
seems like when TSM won a match it was
barracks and carrying the game and if he
can't do that do you even see I don't I
just don't see the other team members
playing up to par EMC 9 just overall its
widest thing seen I would go 3-0 against
them even the MVP your tier list was it
only barracks and TSM on there I don't
think I'm supposed to talk about my MVP
list but I will say he was I had four
all-pro voting which is out I had been
there's my second best ad carry no
yours is my third best mid laner and I
think those are my only TSM players
gotcha but also wasn't one of the people
who had seen iron on everywhere between
first and second team like some fuckin
BN wagon people oh you didn't have
Jenson and no no III so through the
actual voted all-pro team the Exile was
the second best support with gents it
was sneaky the second best marksman and
I think blabber was he the second or 13
jungler and then like Jensen and like
licorice were in there as well like
Jensen was first young I think whicker's
was second team yeah so you're saying
all of the cloud nine members landed
between team one and Team two I think
team one and three team three but either
way like I don't think they're like
that's that's a little bit of a reach I
don't think they're that God's here
recency bias Oh blabber wasn't was the
only one not on any poor kid alright
well thank you so much working call tick
techno - ninja we'll find out if you're
right and TSM is boosted this weekend
thanks so much
alright moving on to the next caller
we've got sports CTC who set Risa for
seven months
well do you guys been around for a while
ratha Khan gifted a sub to oval E and
narrow lol reset for seven months time
mixer realest underrated here's the
Kelly's favorite colorful una bumblebee
tuna yeah I know he's got an Omega wall
profile and horizon is on the call
horizon where you calling from from
Chile from Chile hey great to have you
on have you been on before no never
okay nice I think we've had another
Chilean caller before but it's great to
hear from you what time is it there
Wendy aim wanna a.m. okay well thank you
for for peanuts Leslie what do you want
to talk about on the show tonight well
and I want to talk about like how I
think that riot not having the custom
tally on site is a disgrace for the
scene especially when you compared to
dia not only that they are something
that people saying that that's okay have
no idea what this means
for the seal and the owners okay what
does it mean for the scene and the
owners I mean I'm not saying like oh my
god league is dying but I think if
you're an owner especially first let's
say like nature and you see okay I paid
13 million to get in LCS and now I'm
seeing riot not paying to have the
casting calling on Korea and I'm they're
like hmm why didn't I go to overwatch
League then I see the sponsor Chiefs and
I think the same then I see the price
ball from TI and I think well maybe I
just wrong you know
yeah well the news they could not get
into dota
unfortunately so even if they see the
price well I think that's a place for
them to be disappointed but it's not
like there's a dota franchise league but
I mean should we let Kelby just do his
thing and then we can actually have a
conversation about this great
impassioned points I just don't know
like what it is that why why do you
think horizon that like other Latin
American called caller see like what is
it about them that like you guys just
have such great points passionate about
eSports maybe yeah I mean like because
I'm for Chilean I'm an a Nathan it hurts
even more because I'm from an away well
card you and it already sucks here so
seeing it's like everyone else
everywhere else it's like okay okay
indeed yes I think it comes down to food
like Americans are really lazy alright
whatever let's let's not get it to
borderline offensive qele qele be what
is your take you've been thinking about
this yeah well so I I think I'm probably
gonna take a slightly different
perspective on it
then you guys might have and like I
don't I don't want to just do like a
rant thing so like feel free cuz I could
just talk forever about stuff sure
I'm kind of most concerned about the
dialogue that's been going on here with
franchising because I think that horizon
is right the the team owners perspective
is is very very curious to me it's it's
evident now to all of us and through the
post that happened tonight on the
subreddit that riot is taking a more
fiscally responsible let's say approach
to how they're operating their eSports
business why is this change happening
now especially after the team's just
bought in 10 million dollars apiece into
franchising because that's an influx of
revenue that they hadn't had up to this
point and certainly when you have people
committing long term to the success of
this and the everybody wants to get
their money back right that's that's why
they're here they're not just doing it
as like a charity donation like you know
that they see some business interest in
this it seems like a very very weird and
unfortunate time for these team owners
that riots riot starts scaling back on
things and putting less investment into
the space their their resume they're
reducing cost as they said without as
we've seen any significant increase in
revenue so tell me what if what if the
answer is well of course we're gonna be
more fiscally responsible
we just got 10 new partners we need to
make these guys money and if we keep
spending money like we have in the past
there's no profit to share with them and
they're gonna be dissatisfied yeah for
sure so are they set up on a profit
share bottle or a revenue share model
because obviously that would affect
things right as far as what you're
looking for and we're can you explain
because I think a lot of people won't
understand the right so if you're on a
revenue share model then it's in the
team's interest for Riot to not scale
back these things and to keep them the
way that there are so that the property
is more attractive to drive more revenue
to the league if you're on a profit
share model then yes that argument can
be made that in scaling back our costs
we get closer to break-even because
we're spending right now more than where
making so cutting back on cost is
actually more important to you getting a
cut of something as opposed to a revenue
share model where in the team's best
interest may be non Riots profitability
interest you know like the teams would
just want things to say as big as
possible so that there's more sponsor
money but but the thing is Travis is
that trying to be fiscally responsible
like you need to generate some revenue
to go along with this cutting of costs
which we just haven't seen anything up
to this point and I'm curious and have
expressed many times on the show my
disappointment with their seemingly lack
of effort in trying to do anything to
garner revenue the BAM tech deal was a
complete failure they like twitch was an
apparent and ready partner that went to
overwatch did this really awesome thing
that's making the money is they're
paying a shit ton to Activision Blizzard
for it that riot passed on and they're
not doing anything in sponsorships I can
promise you considering my job is
sponsorship sales in this industry that
riot has a very very attractive
inventory to brands that would love to
be sponsors of this property in the
space it's not like overwatch which had
zero broadcast history up to this point
was able to go out and evangelize so
much better to these brands that they
were like you know what we've heard this
pitch from Riot before and we didn't
really get it but now overwatch League
we think this is our entry point into
sponsoring any sports leagues no riot
has had these opportunities to generate
revenue around their league and they've
had them for a very very long time and
you have a history built out you have
narratives you have identified
properties star players with much
greater reach and social followings than
what you see in overwatch and you're not
making any effort to get it done it
doesn't exist
so if you
you are now as you've stated publicly
focusing on running a more fiscally
responsible property why aren't you
trying to generate any revenue why are
you just cutting costs because as a team
owner if I was so a team owner in the
LCS that would really piss me off
I don't know what the communications
have been like between riot and the team
owners about this but what's going on
what's the plan to chime in slightly the
assumption that riot is not attempting
to generate more revenue up close just
cutting costs probably isn't true but
where is it then mark the success not
hard to go out and sell these deals you
have very attractive inventory as I've
identified inez for you act then attempt
they're different yeah yeah I know for a
fact that there are brands that have
tried and want to sponsor LCS very badly
they have these opportunities I don't
know what the holdup is for them as far
as why they don't want this money
but overwatch League is doing it why is
overwatch league doing it and riot isn't
that I cannot answer you I just was only
chiming in that yeah yeah this statement
that they're not trying he's probably
not right but the fact that there's a
complete it was it was a slaughter in
terms of like sponsor yeah yeah yeah if
they're trying but failing that poorly
and overwatch League is having that
success with a weaker inventory then you
have gross incompetence going on I could
sell LCS super fucking easily I'm not
like amazing in the space I'm pretty
good at my job
but it would not be hard for me to get
considerable revenue generated for LCS
there has to be some sort of internal
barrier or mandate that is keeping them
from selling this property to brands as
far as what they're willing to do on the
deliverable side the budget amounts that
they're looking
for something is holding them back there
are people that want to give riot money
it's has been the number one esports
property in the world for a really
really long period of time it's not hard
to sell that shit it's really easy so
what's the problem I want to know yes
and the wrong guy
I just say in front of the camera I mean
I think there's a couple things here one
was this was clearly not a like these
are not excuses but I think the
explanation would be that this has not
been a priority for riot that Activision
Blizzard probably had a much stronger
sales team go to market and probably
were much more willing to make
compromises on the broadcast I mean when
you go to insist on the broadcast but in
the experience when you go to overwatch
league I've heard that there's a guy who
yells about Sour Patch Kids and gives
people out salary baskets I think that's
totally acceptable but riot who has been
obsessed with player experience and
sometimes to their detriment probably in
this case they probably are resin
reticent to do that and it comes
probably from it like overwatch League
was spearheaded so much we all know by
Bobby Kotick who's the CEO and sees this
is and overwatch Lee exists because he
saw this as a major source of revenue in
the future right like we can make money
off of video games but we can also turn
our video game IPs into this source of
revenue and all these other different
areas and and the rumor is that they'll
come out with series and all the stuff
but let's sports being able to build
your own sport is a huge opportunity for
them and so for right out the gate this
was not like a feature that Blizzard was
trying to build or Activision Blizzard
was trying to build this was like a a
franchise sports league that generates
money and my frustration is that Riot I
think for a while has known that that
was the direction they needed to head
but they didn't pivot
fast enough in the sales and
monetization efforts I don't know if
that's because they had more faith in
bam Tech apparently Celt and I know
we've got a BAM Tech caller coming but I
don't know if that's because they had
more faith in BAM Tech's ability to sell
the stuff I don't know if he disappeared
okay just for now yeah ever so I don't
know if they they felt sorry twitch chat
blowing up I don't know if they they
just had all their eggs in that basket
and if it fell through for reasons we
will probably never know and that's what
happened but it is certainly
disheartening now to see them make the
argument of we need to save money
because we're revenue oriented and they
don't have this and by the way Cal be
like you you mentioned you mentioned all
of this from a sponsorship perspective
yeah but it ignores the very immediate
and obvious way to monetize this which
is through deepening the revenue streams
that they already have one potential
sponsorships is one option they can they
can like battle passes I think are like
I play I played for tonight you know
twitch at they're all gonna get angry
when I say that I play for tonight I buy
the battle pass I bought - all right
about to battle passes twitch yeah chat
all right you can yell at me about it
but there are like a great monetization
strategy yeah and I could totally see a
world same battle past now maybe they're
planning on making that stuff but it is
it is frustrating when iam yeah whatever
Kelby you mentioned something I think
earlier before the show started we were
talking in the skip shadow you know
things of this but one thing that you
pointed out is that right is no longer
leading in the space we've lost mark
right it's no longer leading in the
space in this in this category right in
terms of innovating in the eSports space
and it sucks to see them because I I'm a
big fan of their eSports team a big fan
of what they do and I think these people
are actually like they do really care
they want to do amazing stuff and I know
that it's easy to criticize them but I
actually do think that they are trying
hard it's it's so frustrating to see
them fall behind in so many different
areas in the digital space for
monetization options first
answer ships etc it's just very
frustrating yeah one one thing I will
say is that so for all of the people
responsible for putting these things on
it riot none of this is any of their
fault nobody on the production team or
organized or I would say with 95%
confidence nobody on the production team
or the event side or anybody like comes
in to like end of the year recap
meetings and it's like you know what
next year I'd like to do less except for
mark I want for less you know we want to
do it less cool like I firmly believe in
my time with working at riot or not at
riot with riot that there are a ton of
people still in the organization that I
really really like and they want to do
cool shit like that company doesn't get
where it's at if you don't care about
stuff but it certainly feeds into the
larger narrative about the profitability
of the game and what the ownership of
Riot Games the company who ultimately is
responsible for writing the checks now
is mandating down it's like hey this is
a really big expense for us and your
game if this is this is pure inference
but this is certainly what it feels like
because otherwise why do they change any
of this you know none of these people
just like decide to scale it back for no
reason if you have the money they'll
spend the money to do it right but it
certainly feeds into the narrative that
like you know mmm
this game is performing super well and
you're on the track to run a deficit
like we need to scale back costs and
start thinking more is the sustainable
business instead of a start-up which is
directly referenced in this post yeah
well listen we have a Chilean caller on
the line right now horizon I don't know
as we've been ranching for a little bit
but what do you what do you think about
all this stuff I know you mentioned it's
a disgrace you think team owners should
be concerned what I don't know what what
would you like to see change I mean I
actually what needs to be changed
because that's not my job but from a
good answer that's always my answer from
the I actually love this game you know
and I love the competitive scene and
it's sad to see it scale down I don't
know maybe it's like actually a good
choice or like it's economically
responsible but I don't know it doesn't
bring me hype it doesn't make me happy
for the future load but I don't know hey
yeah I think oh god mark yeah this is
after that long rant where I had to
disappear for a little bit hopefully I'm
you can't be seen on screen with Kelly
yeah hopefully I'll still still be alive
for world's everybody but yeah well
they've any has cleared a spot for you
today so I think you're good I gotta
start watching European games but I
think that's that's what horizon said
the very end I think you know how I feel
about it
for the most part is like just maybe it
is physically spot responsible to quell
this point there's probably a lot more
that could have been done in previous
years and stuff like that and even to
this day maybe there's definitely more
that can be being done and so even if
this is the right thing for them to be
doing in the new franchise model and
everything it still feels fucking bad
for a fan and there's no way to sell
this to a fan and not have it taste bad
yep especially when your fans are aware
of your you know lack of people have
been saying where are the sponsors for
years myself included but also just for
like random brighter threads and stuff
like this has been a conversation for a
long time I just want to echo what
horizon said a second ago by the way
which is a great point like I think look
I'm sure if somebody from Riot was
watching this or if they watch the vibe
like they'll have already turned it off
by the point in time when Kelly said
that he could sell LCS better than they
have but wait I
that's why would you be upset at that
I'm not I'm not saying I've just it's
it's a it's a funny it's a funny
don't worry he'll be yeah was a safe
place um I miss I was just gonna say but
this is all like these conversations
occur and these opinions occur because
like I love this game I love the scene
around it like all my friends that I
hang out with on a daily basis are
attached to this thing in some way or
another and and more broadly even the
people that aren't directly attached
they're part of the eSports scene right
and I I believe that riot can do this
stuff and and beyond my belief in them I
feel like they have a responsibility to
because they are a trailblazer within
the eSports industry they were the first
to do this and and I think that they're
they're falling behind and I think if
they slip you know they're gonna make it
harder for everyone I want to keep
working in these sports for the next 10
to 20 years and so I need not just them
like I levied a shit ton of criticism
against silver watch League I still
don't think that their next franchise
slots are worth 35 million or 40 or 100
million or whatever bajillion dollars
asking for now I'm frustrated that Valve
doesn't do enough to support their games
in my opinion but I'm also frustrated
that right is failing here and I think
that you know we I I think it's
important for everyone to make smart
decisions for for the industry to move
forward because horizon is a fan of
League of Legends and legal legends
eSports he wants to be excited about
this stuff and it's hard to be excited
about this and it's also really hard
whenever this it just looks like there's
just a fuckup that's led us to this
point so I don't know I think I think we
probably talked about it but do you have
anything else you want to say horizon I
mean one last point is that even though
I don't think that over Wesley I don't
like our which I like the game I don't
like watching it but even though I don't
think that the next posts are worth as
much they're doing things burned and
right and right had a head start
like or years ago so I don't know yeah
it's kind of this
to see that rights is falling behind yep
yep and I feel I hope that they feel
this hardened to that that's the last
thing I'll say on this I don't know if
we have another color but the last thing
I want to say is there was never any
ownership in the post that came out
today about their failure to monetize
that's what worries me the most is that
that whenever stuff like this happens
it's always like well this was all part
of the plan and if it was part of the
plan
that's worrying to me but if you have
fucked up and you didn't handle
monetization the way you should have and
you didn't take it seriously and you're
willing to come out and say this is an
area where we failed and we need to get
better and we're doubling down like
those statements would give me more
faith but statements that kind of
pretend like it was always the plan to
not have the English broadcast out of
Korea this year like years ago like it
was on some sort of long-term goal chart
sucks
thanks so much rising for your call yeah
really appreciate you calling it the
final of the pressing capper on all that
of course is that every Empire crumbles
listen mark I don't we don't need to
make this about the u.s. all right I do
like the great as least wars for a
little while and they got broken up into
three kingdoms between his sons I don't
really know how that translates
metaphorically to the situation but
either way you know whatever happens my
father will break up his kingdom among
me and my two brothers and who would so
you would give part of your kingdom to
doublelift and Kelby probably right and
who else I don't I would give none of it
to Peter because that would descend into
anarchy really quick I don't know who it
gives the other one to I'd give the
other one to read it and just let see
what happens you know that's Poppa read
it yeah MACD shifty I served vetcorps 24
for two months you give it to the
shot-caller they want to take everything
else of yours caleda one black ndred
nine publicly gifted a subdued array
event Nexus reset for seven months
matcom sent 500 bits Danny nukes reset
for four months the point of LCS and pro
league is to see a game people at play
at the highest level good night nurse 24
mister papaya big Wraith chief bit Jelly
Belly meddling kids Atari Legend and
still only got a couple more boba color
gives us such a prison Lazarus polish
Phase II with Kelly what happened what
happened at lyce Calvin was making fun
of a eSports organization that has been
heavily influenced by my work
Chewbacca 101 were you calling from
maybe a galaxy far away now I'm calling
from Harrisburg in Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania what what do you wanna talk
about on the show tonight I want to talk
about how if TSM beats c9 that they'll
go on and beat whoever they have to play
in finals if TSM beats c9 they will go
on to put beat whoever else okay so this
is the opposite of the caught guy who
called in and said that they were
boosted yep okay
[Applause]
why do you think that this is the case I
think TSM is just overall better than c9
I think they're better players in
general not not Greg and not like
they're balling tends to like not set up
but like if you just mentioned three
fifths of the team by the way well like
when the bot Lane helmet Kelly's had it
I have to warn you have to be careful
around Calvi right now Chewbacca he's on
fire yeah okay sorry just be careful
Chewbacca
so you bide you're fine thank you good
observation and sign unsa
when spinning with you can actually step
up I think that's when tier sounds like
at their best it's like all in the bot
lane is my like
like I think Greg is probably like a
lost cause like he's not like bad like
he's gonna be like the weakest link I'm
like he might just get bullied by
blabber and whoever like tricks it's
like I think tricks inches better than
Jensen like if we go back like the last
time c9b tears oh man any best-of-five
was spring 2014 playoffs and like some
people don't like like history cause
like people like like everyone's changed
like history is like important I think
it's like a good like storyline and
stuff I think like TSM like hauntzer is
really good like he's fight like he's
like my favorite top lane but I'm super
biased Chewbacca do you think then if c9
were to be TSM that c9 wall so in the
split do you just think that this half
is better oh yeah yeah I think tio is
probably having a weaker end I think
this is probably like going to be
whoever wins this is like the real
finals so to your point I think I did
some more thinking after the previous
caller who said TSM was fucked I tried
to think about like how DSM does win the
series because I was kind of agreeing
and I think it's actually gonna be the
other way around if TSM wins I think it
kind of more comes down to them having
their bottling outperform c9s which I
think's eons Watling was one of the
weaker points for them throughout the
season and I don't think TSM in Zen
mithya quite the right people to punish
it in lane but I can see faizal's first
playoff series not being great maybe
that leads to some problems for them and
I think svenne is really really good I
think he had a pretty good serious vers
echo fox even though they they did lose
a lot of those lanes i thought he played
really well outside of that so i could
see a world where games go mid to late
c9 don't find the advantages that
they're quite hoping for and then jazel
has a pretty big responsibility of
engaging things and can't quite execute
or something but
that's me playing like an 80/20 offens
it feels like you're 70/30 or something
like I really do think it's you know
it's a heavy heavy favor man yeah I
think it's gonna be close like it's
gonna go all five games but like I think
TSM has like a slight edge brixon has
like that pedigree like I think he
stoled like the best mid like you can
talk to me about Jensen like all the
other guys like Rick seems like he hits
that level sometimes in playoffs where
he's just out classes everyone else he
just takes over games so like if you get
them off the assassin so you can't like
just have that crazy Akali game like
earlier or whatever like then Emma she
is like you leave him the assassins like
I think you're just gonna get dumped
suit I mean there's a fair amount of
viable assassins so if you're right
maybe but Jensen Jensen's always playing
pretty tight so I don't know also it run
a bunch of really annoying comps to play
assassins into like I don't think you
want to play that really into like the
kindred zillion bullshit so you have to
ban that if they want to do that yeah
obviously it's hard for me to talk about
the specifics as a analytical side but I
I don't know I'm it's such in a way it
feels like this match is the culmination
of like all the storylines from the
split and and maybe the year or where
it's just it's super fascinating to see
these two teams who both have struggled
both had questions around decisions that
the management made you know fight to
see which one's gonna make it into the
finals because whoever goes whoever wins
that their fans are just going to
embrace them and then I feel like
whoever loses it
maybe cloud 9 will be able to be okay
but you know fans are out for blood or
victory whichever one has given to them
this week and I think they're gonna go
after so I don't know I don't think it
matters because the the winner of this
series is gonna lose to y'all so I do
like charrisse's point though that like
both TSM and c9 have gone through so
much shit this split that is pretty high
that they get to meet like this yeah
we're like TSM losing in
and quarters and not making finals for
the first time in forever like Xena I'm
won the offseason lost the offseason
benching like all those people like I
don't know this is this is so fucking
height yep
I'm really excited about Chewbacca
thank you so much for your call do you
have any other final thoughts no thank
you for letting me young guys these are
fun have a good one thanks chewy moving
on
even more subs from an hour ago she's so
hard to catch up okay well polish for
six months I fury 99 lol Bulbasaur this
is happy five months babycakes burnt
cooter for six months six months of me
saying that name just casual reset for
five months stable flag greased-up for
eight I can't read that teen kori mid
subbed Kiwi mullet boy reset for ten
months we're at the ten month mark
that's not just flyin tonight
for eight do you have any year long subs
Travis no I'm the only one I think
everyone's at like 10 or 11 an Alistar
or any all-star Tim bla dark King Johnny
blade 37 and we've got our next person
sir mal effect is here sir mal effect
are you currently playing World of
Warcraft
I am currently playing what's your item
level dude dude I've got 332 and another
338 damn well I can understand why it
says you've been playing World of
Warcraft for seven hours here very well
thank you for being a twitch sub by the
way really appreciate it no problem
what are you doing are you like having
this conversation while doing like world
class or something just save someone
modes enabled so we have to careful yeah
well I this will be another youtube
video that my youtube channel rages at
the fact that I can't talk about World
of Warcraft I mean I I think word for
word you said the exact same thing you
know of your interviews for like week
you're like so what do you think about
the effect of World of Warcraft on your
wires I didn't appreciate that
impression
we're in still thought Travis was
talking it wasn't looking at discord a
new rules knowing can do impressions of
me when they come I would normally ask
you where you're calling from but maybe
we can ask you like we're a Nazareth you
are right now oh I'm at Fort de lijn in
[Music]
storm song Valley yeah but in real life
I am and she caught okay very good
what do you want to talk about on the
show tonight I want to talk about I
think riot I think about like the whole
keeping the broadcast I was gonna talk
about the broadcasting and the decision
to keep them in you I'm sorry to keep
them in LA for the company broadcast
sure I'm gonna try and keep the focus on
like the pressure they've gotten from
$0.10 with regards to like the failure
to make or like riots reticence to make
a mobile game and the pressure they have
are so over monetization I don't think
that I don't know like the topic sort of
talk to death but maybe we can talk
about like the pressure they're getting
from 10 cents which I do not think he's
been happily dressed as they made out in
their PR kits you do so why I'm curious
why do you think that there is pressure
from 10 cent in us I think there's
pressure from sin cent because if you
look at other free-to-play games that
started on T C and have now switched to
mobile I think Mobile is just easy
mething Mobile's free money like
hearthstone like people just buy like 6
or head lost by lose audio no we can
still hear good yeah I think that like
if you look at like how like these other
games punching certain part night people
just like like you go in mobile you buy
a bunch of packs or skins or whatever
it's like a casual super light game mode
which they can do now because they have
Nexus splits like Nexus blitz I think
would work fine on mobile I think that
they have valid concerns about porting
the competitive experience to mobile
which I think you would address by just
having it be like a sub game that you
can still make money awesome though I
wonder how sorry just to cut in I think
the interesting challenge there is once
you do in one game mode I think
everybody's just gonna say do it in the
other game mode yeah yeah and I think
they keep riots concerned as the
integrity of keeping like patches
consists they want like single patches
for a single game and they don't want
too much variance between like a mobile
and I think they just don't think mobile
games are hardcore and they want to be a
hardcore game writing company I agree
and I think that the tension is that
like you can do things that aren't
hardcore like Nexus blitz that are there
for monetization and making a mobile
version would be non hardcore and go
against companythis but like if they're
having enough money issues that they
have to kill like let's put this like I
like was I'm I'm more excited about
eSports that I am about any other form
of sports I was against traditional
sports for a really long time is like
you know nerd growing up etc etc sure
but when I went to see SKT play rng to
two years ago in Chicago in the semi
finals for Worlds it was like a
life-changing experience
sure and not having the broadcast team
there not having them there to document
that experience not having them there to
talk to the players in the immediate
aftermath of that experience is gonna
change the total energy of the of the
experience everybody it's gonna be
lessons it's gonna like like I'm sorry
like that well one one thing to notice
that they will have oddly instructor so
they can do the interview I you know
part of me wishes they didn't because
that would I'd have a Twitter I'll
backpack with me well I'm here right now
did you get your interview from riot but
I got your interview right here just to
cop in real quick that's actually where
I think and I might be a little biased
as someone who would care about this but
I think that's where you might see the
most quote-unquote damage from from this
and less from like some people like oh
the casters are gonna be nocturnal and
they're gonna be tired or like it's not
gonna be hyped because you're not gonna
see them like standing with a backdrop
behind them like I don't know like I
think that stuff's gonna be less
impactful for the viewer but I think
what does hurt the broadcast is like
some of us not being able to talk to the
play
and I know we'll have oddly their and
stuff to interview and that's gonna be
really helpful but like just speaking
about Academy matches and LCS matches
like all bump into them getting a drink
of water and I'll be like hey what
happened here like what do think about
this this kind of stuff no like that's
actually how I get a lot of my my info
it's like oh hey I heard this what's
your opinion guy who I heard this about
and like you can't do that the amount of
times that a caster on the broadcast
says well I bumped into but double left
in the background and he said that
actually he doesn't worry about the
Caixa pic because well like that that is
I think it adds a lot of flavor and I I
mean I like mark is on the analyst desk
and and so he would know more than me
but I do actually think that the casters
will not perform as well because I do
think they're gonna be up in the middle
of the night they're not gonna be
attached to this game this event they
won't be able to hear the crowd like I
don't I I do think it's gonna impact it
yeah I mean I I've casted I did the alt
streams which followed a single player
in 2016 during group stage so they were
all in somewhere I forget where they
were they might have been traveling a
forget anyway I was doing those old
streams they were in 2016 was all like
San Francisco and stuff like that you
went up there the ultra noobs are all
based in LA yeah the either way like you
know I can definitely say like casting
to an empty room definitely has like a
bit of a weird vibe to it but like once
you get into the game I don't I didn't
find it that different but I also think
it I thought you were terrible why I was
gonna say we're also not our alt stream
was not like it was not it was not
supposed to be the main stream not hype
hype we're like oh look at that jungle
path and that's really interesting could
in these four other camps and this is
like very conversational whereas like if
you're trying to scream your head off
captain flowers like oh my god just in
the pants greatest play ever like right
Jeff that could that could put all I can
see that potentially getting hurt but
the night thing for me maybe it's just
cuz I enjoy being nocturnal I'm actually
fucking palm to a little dick
I get to stay up all night yeah for an
excuse but anyways to go back sorry to
interject no it's right so
go ahead a thermal effect I think you
were you were going on a little bit
longer yeah I just think that I just
want to see how they I guess a lot of it
will come down to how they spin it on
the broadcast like I think doing
anything within lines of like a green
screen cuz I Vettius this announcement
isn't official right like right hasn't
officially said this no they did what
we're doing we are moving the brought
this was long planned measure because I
was trying to run the numbers like if
you're transporting like 15 casters and
analysts and then maybe 10 tech crew
that's maybe like it's it's a lot of so
so to put it in context but if you
compare it with like the amount they got
in this year they're like it's like I
feel like this is this is more of a
symbolic cost-cutting measures no it is
it is Pro I would not be surprised if or
they save a million dollars it's not
doing this area because you so what
people don't understand is you know
having having worked on my fair share of
live broadcast so riot will usually
bring one or two giant trucks out like
okay so so control rooms are filled with
a shit ton of very expensive and unique
equipment that you you can purchase and
put it in a place in LA or you can rent
at a great deal of money and bring it
out in a truck and you know I don't know
if they're bringing multiple trucks but
sometimes you bring out multiple trucks
cuz you need to basically have like all
this expensive gear like switchers and
boards and your routing like amazing
incredible like stuff technological
stuff you know I don't trying to make it
simple but and and you also need to have
all those people out there those people
not just being the casters but all the
people running the broadcast producers
you have to cater all those people and
it is actually a significant significant
sum of money the problem is they've been
spending it for years which is why I
don't mind but I understand on it is it
is a real cost-cutting measure I
understand why they need
caught costs cut off it's almost 10
o'clock guys Travis is a shutting down
but I think it makes sense that this is
what you would do so I I I don't know
that's my take a video and hotline
League at Worlds by the way you know our
shooting you're not gonna be there but
we could do it in LA and it would uh
it's funny Custer late late-night
hotline League it would be very funny to
a prop pirate broadcast from Korea like
hey oh we're I'm casting the broadcast
or whatever nearby I know this mal
effect you have any other thoughts sorry
we're not trying to rush through you but
we are no no no I don't want to segue
into another topic cool well thank you
so much for your call
and thank you for being a sub and good
luck with your world quest
thanks a bunch have a good night guys
see you do thanks dude
I was impressed with his vocab a
reticence and ethos ethos whatever yeah
you know good words you don't get that
most of time on the show not even from
the co-hosts Johnny blade 37 and Jared
HTM Jo fantastic month month delicious
Brian Brian 9 397 hollow moon lol reset
for four months rousing Robin recursion
TV and vo Qi is here Marc is already
laughing so I'm a little worried vo Chi
I just love the way you phrase that like
where forward again okay Mirchi where
are you calling from Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania another Pennsylvania color
I feel like we've had three with
including him but maybe like yeah what
do you want to talk about on the show
tonight I think a hundred thieves is
abysmal and I think and they should be
crossing their fingers hoping that they
don't reach world's it is strong opinion
night on hotline League all right go
educate me okay just I think a hundred
East has a clear ceiling
and I think they're not gonna breach
that ceiling anytime soon I don't think
that they're going to win against Hyo I
don't think they're gonna win against
any other team against like West I got
super lucky that they got against my
quest we're not lucky they won the tie
breakers but in the best-of-five I don't
think they're gonna be winning I think
it's because like I remember at the
beginning the season during High Line
leak people called in saying their
players not gonna be motivated all
that's an issue I just think their
players have a clear clear your seal
link something's really good but I don't
see where you getting much better I
don't see Cody son being extremely
better or aphromoo I don't think ondas
gonna improve in time yeah Fiocchi do
you think that the team that would
replace them would do better at Worlds
like does doesn't matter is the third
slot from n/a going to get out of groups
I think Cena's in the window split and
if they do that means I think TSM didn't
want to go in which i think is an help a
lot for TSM I think you having practice
in the coma and having practice in to
play in siege is gonna help them a lot
to do better in groups but I like that
prediction that feels like a very like
you say so confidently you make me want
to believe you
I also feels good for any fan to here
see 90s MTL like yeah with the players
that they have yeah I so this is a weird
one to call a hot take because I see
everyone agreeing with it and it's one
that I actually agree with too so like I
don't know but I don't think do you
think okay the hottest hot part of this
was that hundred thieves is abysmal do
you think hundred thieves is abysmal no
they're not a business but I mean it's a
bit of hyperbole obviously but I wasn't
saying like it wasn't a hot take in the
sense that I just don't hear anyone's
like talking about this right now really
but it's apparently a popular sentiment
it's just like is it so understood that
this is true that no one needs to talk
about it like it's surprising to see how
many people agree like I agree it's just
like this team is clearly good in my
opinion for North America they're a top
team there will always be a top team and
I think that there's a world where like
they would go over echo fox or they
might go over TSM if TSM's not having a
good day or something
in a countless series but that doesn't
make me more excited for them to be at
worlds I would still rather have a wild
and crazy ass echovox at worlds than a
hundred years would you rather have TSM
TSM I'd a little bit more hope for it
but like I think to the point of the
question you asked Travis about like are
you expecting anything out of theirs
anyways my answer is no and that's why I
don't want to send a hundred thieves who
play this snow macro game where they're
just gonna lose on individual skill and
worse macro than other teams I'd rather
yeah box who are fuckin nutty and like
can make some waves so like I just think
about yes I'm going to worlds and
flopping out of groups again I I almost
would rather see if if that's the case
if we think that hundreds if we think
TSM isn't gonna make it out of groups I
don't know if I want them there you know
like it just feels so I'd almost rather
send somebody else in it's like well at
least it was Hunter T's first try and
maybe they'll make it next year and they
learned a lot from the like I get that
there's like a shit ton of veterans on
this thing but I I understand what
you're saying like if that is the
outcome it would feel worse but I'd
still be more excited to watch TSM
trying to fight that outcome like yeah
that I would be way more disappointed in
TSM failing get out of groups together
that go a hundred thieves for sure but I
also wouldn't give a fuck about hundred
thieves at all we're at least ESM I'm
excited to watch you know why don't you
care about how just cuz their style of
play is boring there's their style of
play I think it's just not gonna make
it's just not gonna work on this on this
stage like they'll they'll beat a wild
car team who can't deal with their macro
and slow grindy play style and they
loose everyone else who's like clearly
better than then what if that's what we
need we need to send the most boring
mundane play style you know just like
just send that that na like I don't say
in a bomb in two worlds are you sure
what is your pitch on this you just said
Center was boring teams yeah yeah that's
what that no one will expect it you know
it's let's play this way na if we ever
do well at Worlds it's not gonna be on
the backs
of a flashy team with some rookies who
have heart and are here to really show
off what they can do all right if
anything's gonna make worlds it's gonna
be because we're gonna residentsleeper
the fuck out of the other team and
everyone will just be like oh na is
doing well and it's awful because this
is why I want I want the fucking jet lag
nocturnal casters in America in LA to
fall asleep watching hunter thieves
matches as they win their way out of
worlds fucking cold
would you want a hundred thieves to make
worlds let's say like clown line beat
CSM and its cloud 9 vs tio and they both
look so good but then at tal wins a
series then a hundred thieves goes in
through championship points even though
they let's say they look let's say they
lose a fourth-place match yeah they look
like the worst team and then they go
into championship points I feel like
that's just so so upsetting that re
exhausted yeah I am exhausted what's the
likelihood that happens because they
both have 10 points you know NTSF from
spring second place would give them 90
they'd be at a hundred hundred thieves
is at fifty and you get another 50 from
fourth i think but seeding from summer
matters more so i think no matter what
if hundred thieves gets fourth they will
not make it I think I think I might have
got all that really wrong um a hundred
seasons of 70 yeah alright so this is
why you don't do math on air yeah yeah
no you know you're right fuck do you
that looks really miserable that looks
like they're going then
ha work where I ever gonna fit phanie
right now yeah I didn't really because I
I know that the winner of the TSA or the
TL hundred views match 100% code like
they they 100% auto qualify which sucks
then because I think TL is probably a
favorite versus e9 an TSM no matter what
but now I guess I'm hoping for TL to get
second to see now to get first so
hundreds use has to go the gauntlet yeah
anything I'm just hoping for that too
yeah damn dude I got real sad where'd
your camera go Travis well you had to
switch to his webcam no I haven't yet
I'm trying I plugged it back in I don't
know why okay now it looks like it's not
charging so that's probably gonna
exhaust in a second but GTL has to take
a has to go down for everybody they have
to give it up
vo Ching you you presented a scary
disparaging future of the world that I
didn't want to know but thank you so
much for the call yeah thank you okay
one more to go
show kill subbed Lord Galactic the
eternal cow and sham sham sham with the
six months he wrote battery exhausted by
the way everyone could help me if they
could just move their cursor over their
screen where the broadcast is happening
let stream right now if it says you have
a twitch crime sub that you can use
please click it sport CTC is here Sports
CTC thank you for being a twitch that
what why are you calling from I'm
calling from the great state of Texas a
great state of Texas very good welcome
horns yeah hey no fan so are you are you
Kelvin what no okay
well that was my very pathetic attempt
to you you are our last caller for the
night so what do you got for us gave us
something good alright my topic it is
that Lee legends past the pro competitor
it used to be is really bad right now
the other major sports styles like csgo
overwatch rocket League etc you know I
wanted at least it's a positive topic
something that could lift me up it can
be positive I can make it positive
okay okay go for it go for it for the
first one I say we can do csgo which
right now there's a two to three really
good third-party sites you can get nosed
on like ESEA face it and the waiting
notes on there is to just perform a good
matches get high RWS and then get
noticed on one team maybe a good
attorney like that you know spend our
team by cetera cetera for other what you
have this giant open division that there
are done wise are gonna do again later
in the year probably and then you get
promoted from that two contenders and
they can and there's possibly two no
pipes leak yeah and if a rocket League
you have all these open tourney's dozen
even doing all the time also their pride
websites sure and for dota I'm not I've
never played dota so know much about if
I know there's some type of challenge
later
carnies they do I mean Kelby do they
have a better set now Kelly shaking his
head so it's just the tops and the guy
who actually just won t I was a was a
solo queue player like four months ago
so his path to pro was pretty nice
that's cool yeah yeah zero prize pool
winnings before 11 million dollars well
he made two but well split yeah yeah
that would have been dope sport so so
how's this positive I but I actually
think sorry I think that League of
Legends path to pro are you saying in
North America or like around the world
well I was thinking which is North
America but if you think I know
Europe has like tons of different like
leagues and divisions you can go through
I think that the path to pro in North
America is actually like pretty solid
you have a couple different options you
either need to go to
lck or you LCS and then you know just
get right realized to it and then who's
the owners will come banging down or
it's shit tons of money I mean I don't
know why I expect anything else could
put you on a plane first class which
makes common grounds you know that's a
lot of different systems got here on so
that's not where we get our talent for
anything else yeah so we get it for me
you all see up okay you know the good
palate good kelpies Kobe's meeting to
answer more seriously
I agree that like the eSports standard
of like some sort of Oakville and
tournament structure that you like work
your way and grind through to reach the
Premier League is obviously lacking in
League eSports but I wouldn't say it's
necessarily worse I think it's actually
just different
yeah there's a lot more folk like I
actually think as an individual you have
a pretty good a chance if you're
actually good and you want to play on
LCS team of getting there because
there's so many extra little things that
you get to do besides the planet seem
like if you're a good player on a bad
team then you're playing these open
qualifiers they can take a while to get
your come up yeah but if you are popping
off in soloqueue you have a high rating
go to scouting around like you are 100%
getting on an academy team if you show
up yeah and that has happened all this
year I would say Scout and grounds plus
Academy has actually been an amazing
success and we've seen more new players
like young guys come in in the last two
years and stick in the scene more than
we had seen in the two previous years
with challenger I would have to
double-check that but I'm pretty sure
that's true you know kinda grounds
earlier I'm gonna go make your fun no no
I I just I you I agree with mark I think
that LCS and overwatch have the best
past the pro right now just because like
these organizations the professional
organizations in both of those leagues
support sister and/or Academy teams or B
teams or whatever and in other esports
it doesn't really exist so through the
nature of having more slots and I think
that yeah this year in particular for
LCS I think we've seen an academy talent
be utilized more than any other year by
far as far as like people getting
promoted up
put on rosters and given chances and
stuff it does that sound right to marker
yeah I think so because what often
happened previously would be like some
I'm gonna say shitty here in comparison
LCS scenes with some pretty challenging
team
knocks out some shitty LCS team and like
they get shit on for like three months
before they get kicked back out of the
league and like maybe one player there
externally has impressed people enough
maybe one or two to like end up on a
better team next split and that was your
dream yeah cuz there was like the one c9
story but that's not what most people
were it was like I hopefully will
impress enough people on this bad team
like Smoothie did on TDK to then end up
on good teams where's the rest of t DK
just fuckin died and disappeared but now
you end up on academy teams and you have
a chance to prove to people in person
how good you are
yeah and lack of relegation makes as a
team owner you like less risk-averse in
like fuck dude can i really afford to
take this risk on this Academy player
cuz if I'm in the bottom three and
facing relegation that's a scary premise
yeah like I've heard like the desk talk
about like gun Guardians if they would
have been an illegal I quit two years
ago in row gate first split and probably
not made it back yeah what Jack have
made this crazy Jack and reapered have
made this crazy Ross remove if
relegations existed at the split I don't
think so it's hard and look where they
are now it paid off right and : glue
head like I mean gold igloo is up gonna
be on a team next with hundred percent
after this opportunity so I agree it's
like not as I don't think it's as cool
like in the sense that like you get this
TI story of this guy like coming from
fucking nowhere and dominating you get
like blabbers story we're like he played
in scouting grounds we're still in
school and then like once he was done
joined Cena and then played on their
academy team and then became their
starting jungler and is now like pushing
to potentially go the world and it's
like it feels more step-by-step which
sometimes isn't this hype but I do think
it actually is a pretty good path yeah
it's it's not as hype but like cool
there's one
SMIL there's one Thompson there's one
miracle year like it's really feast or
famine whereas like if you're talking
about an actual good process or path
it's it's I think it's much better than
leaking over watch a little bit sad
topic but do you remember I think is
last foot that I think it was my been
game ever exactly but it when CLG was
still an F I first owned CLG and he was
sick that one week and they had the
player travel from like East Coast to
come play from yeah Joey yeah that's who
it was you know a team yeah he's on t la
they are the he played it EMA site he
played a massage so yeah Olli
oh yeah fuck he did not have a great MSI
experience if I recall correctly no but
I don't think he was prepared for that
experience yet I didn't have a good MSI
experience all right sport CTC I would
just iterate everything they've said but
do you feel like that's a fair response
yeah I think it's pretty fair a
something a little bit yeah well hey
thanks for calling in I I think we can
all agree riot has an amazing path to
pro experience really like what they've
done they're really supportive of their
efforts big felt the camera exhausted
again I noticed that when I was saying
okay well hey thank you sports teams all
right well let me try and fix this
thanks everybody for watching got two
thousand people in here only Kelby you
know we didn't even need a big name to
get these two KP plan here so I'm really
happy we're doing so good Travis that we
can carry Kelby no I'm just kidding I
hate it I had a lot of fun to show
I appreciate it Kelly's insight and I'm
gonna go play more wow I think I want to
promote are you gonna go to the thing
this weekend with me
after the games are done what is this
weekend oh is it the charity event Oh No
fuck yeah so I want to go to that but
it's like two hours away isn't it um I
don't I'm not sure but yeah I will hunt
percent try and get to F I can't
I actually fucked up really because they
were asking me about some like if I was
would be available for it and stuff yeah
I heard I got the gig cuz you couldn't
take it kind of I I definitely messed up
like the the schedule of like what was
happening with the LCS and I was telling
them I could probably do it at that
moment thank you because I need the work
no problem dude I think you know I think
you see beyond the summit stuff yeah
yeah I think it's probably love the idea
of sitting on the couch and just hanging
out and talking to people like I
actually like I've wanted to do an event
like this for a while I would like it
for those that don't know for me oh is
hosting a event this is that is
happening this week and I tweeted my
involvement but it's a big streamer
streamer tournament called gift the rift
that is taking place on the first this
Saturday ton of big names are involved
and I'm gonna be hosting it so we'll
have fun interviews and all sorts of
stuff going on there so hopefully you
can yeah in that stream and the TSM c9
stream i say beyond the summit i'm not a
hundred cents sure if it is well it's
not beyond the summit branded right
samitis liek that but it is them doing
the production so i actually think it's
gonna be it's it's beyond the summit
League of Legends but again it's swarm
yo putting on an event called gets the
rift so damn I'm leaks eighty tonight
you leaked the production team oh no you
know you say that comedic ly but I think
be honest summit is one of the teams
that people would actually get hyped for
to know that they're working on it yeah
no no no I'm just I'm just saying like I
don't know a lot of like negative
recourse for you sharing that
information yeah yeah if you watch smash
summit or dota summit like it's really
cool it's super laid back super chill
really good like accessibility to all
the people I love it yeah
well anyway so I'm working on that let
me I'm trying to crab the link so I can
put it in the chat how are you doing so
by the way this past weekend there was a
thread peeps loose figured it out
Cal be made joining CLG did you hear
about this mark no do I care about this
on the on this the CLG separated there's
a thread that was I was linked to one of
Kelly's tweets and it was like Cal be
hinting at joining at a possible return
and I love this so much it's so good
so Kelby welcome back to CLG I commented
in there that I was not returning to CLG
what this stands in stark contrast to
the words that you have specifically
told me nope
alright okay are you able to talk about
what you're doing yet mmm is it on your
Twitter no Winnick when can you talk
about it it's been no no it's been a
couple months
yeah has been a month um cuz this look
lady you got fired from twitch I did get
fired
really I got fired for coming on hotline
League and bashing riot and twitch said
there's no way that you can slam one of
our partners like that and I said yes
they said you have to they said you have
to stop you it's one or the other twitch
or hotline League and I chose hotline
link that's not dedicated TOS to bully
another streamer or like you're gonna
they're gonna shut down my personal
twitch channel because of bullying the
Riot Games channel however if you're
gonna get kicked off here - you damn
well it was fun guys but Kelby you're
you're not gonna say what you do right
now no it's not
it's a everybody in the industry now oh
well it's on a lot to be known by these
these fine folks yeah these are this is
the industry these 1,763 people are the
industry
no it doesn't even need to be stated
okay it's it's not that it's like secret
or anything like that it's just that I
haven't talked about discussing it
externally yet and you know like I don't
know here's here's your mission check
seventy-nine sick not you
the 716 363 people that are watching the
hundreds of thousands if not millions
that watch this show on YouTube
find out what Kelly's doing alright this
is your your it's a it's an alternate
reality augmented reality what are those
things called Arg yeah yeah it's really
game yes yes I get out of here before
10:30 super strong super strong okay
great yeah so anyway or something no
we're just hanging about we're having a
good time speak for yourself but this
has been oh yeah thank you so much I'm
gonna be on that broadcast this weekend
for gift the rift check it out
Cal be may thank you for being on Riot
Games please don't hate us it's all out
of love but also please sell your
product so you can afford to send people
to places because I'm gonna be sending
myself to Korea and you can't send your
people to create its kind of mark is
here and that's hot light League episode
42 fix that road for watching